EXPERIMENTAL CORRECTIONS DURING ANALYSIS

In an ideal scattering experiment, the particle trajectories
and energies under study can be known to arbitrary precision. Real laboratory
conditions complicate this simple picture and require the experimenter to
navigate the tradeoffs between experimental variables. For example, in an
idealized version of our differential cross
section measurement, the smaller the sample and neutron detectors are, the more precisely
the angle of scattering of an incident neutron can be determined. Unfortunately,
smaller samples also reduce the rate of scattering and smaller detectors
reduce the solid angle in which scattered neutrons can be measured, both of
which reduce the number of detected neutrons and increase the statistical
uncertainty of the measurement. The experimentaler is thus responsible for applying
appropriate corrections so that reported results are apparatus-independent.

In the case of our differential cross section measurement at TUNL, the detectors'
composition, the geometry of the TOF room, and beam characteristics were
determined by the default configuration of the TUNL facility. Our samples were already
appropriately shaped for the TUNL TOF room sample suspension system and were
used for the measurement without modification. Given this configuration, we
identified two areas of concern requiring correction: the energy-dependence of
the detector efficiency ("efficiency correction") and the uncertainty in the
scattering angle due to the finite size of our sample and detectors ("finite
size correction").

Efficiency correction was straightforward: the detector response with respect to
neutron energy had already been tabulated by TUNL staff. Accordingly, we
adjusted the number of counts in each bin of our detector histograms according
to the bin's energy (shown in Fig. [X]). To understand finite-size effects, a
Monte Carlo simulation was developed in which the sample and detector geometry
could be varied and the effect on the cross section visualized. As illustrated
in Fig. [X], in an experiment with point-like detectors and
samples, the scattering angle for a given configuration can be exactly
determined. In a realistic experiment, however, the finite size of the sample
introduces uncertainty in the location of the scattering vertex and the finite size of the
detector introduces uncertainty in the location of the detection vertex. Consequently, the cross
section calculated for a given angle also includes unwanted contributions
from nearby angles; correcting for this effect is essentially a "deconvolution"
of the scattering trajectories with respect to the sample and detector geometry.

For simplicity, the simulation was purely geometric - no nuclear physics or
energy-dependence was included. For each Monte Carlo iteration, the beam was
assumed to uniformly illuminate
the sample from one direction so that the scattering vertex was randomly
distributed within the sample volume. At the scattering vertex, a neutron
trajectory was selected by randomly sampling an "input cross section" as a
probability mass function, thus weighting the neutron scattering angles by the
input cross section.  Once the trajectory was known, each detector's location
and orientation was used to calculate the point of intersection in the plane of each detector. If the
intersection fell within the detector's face, the detector registered a hit.
Finally, the "output cross section" (that is, the result of the simulation)
was calculated by normalizing the number of counts registered in each detector
over the total number of iterations and the fraction of the total solid angle
subtended by said detector.

The results of the simulation are visible in Fig. [X]. For the sample and
detector sizes actually used in the experiment, the deviation between the input
and output cross sections is <1% over all angles. When exaggerated sizes for the
sample and detectors are used, the finite-size effect is visible as a "washing
out" of minima and maxima in regions where the cross section varies rapidly with
angle. To calculate a correction factor for our results, we divided the simulation's
input cross section by the output cross section for each angle and multiplied our
experimental results by this factor. In principle, this procedure to generate
the correction should be repeated iteratively because the correction changes the input distribution 
used for the simulation itself, but in practice the correction is so small
that no further iteration is required.
