Experimental apparatus

We conducted our neutron elastic cross section measurements at the neutron TOF
beamline of the Triangle Universities Nuclear Laboratory (TUNL) facility [insert
image]. Incident deuterons, supplied by the facility's variable-energy tandem
Van De Graaf accelerator, impinged on a deuterium gas cell to produce a
forward-focused neutron beam via the d(d,n)3He reaction. Given the beam profile,
the neutron energy distribution was calculated as X (Y) MeV with a FWHM of x (y)
MeV for the 11 MeV and 17 MeV experiments, respectively. The gas cell was
equipped with a tantalum beam stop to prevent unreacted beam from reaching
the samples. 

Samples were suspended in a vertically-aligned wire basket [INSERT DISTANCE] cm
downstream of the gas cell and were rotated in and out of beam between
runs with a hand-actuated pulley. Neutron scattering off
the in-beam samples were recorded by one of the two main detectors, labeled "4M"
and "6M". These detectors were mounted on large, movable carriages, or "arms",
each of which was independently movable so that two angular cross section
measurements could be conducted simultaneously. By recessing them deep within
the arms' heavy shielding, the detectors were only accessible to neutrons
entering the arm at a precise angle. The distance of the 4M (6M) angular
detector from the sample was X (Y) cm, which, for an elastically-scattered
11 MeV neutron, corresponds to a [insert time] ([insert time) ns time-of-flight.

To further reduce room background and prevent neutrons from entering the arms directly
from the gas cell, an ensemble of "shadow bars" (wedge-shaped tungsten bricks)
were used to adjust the aperture at the entrance to the arms. After an arm's
angle was changed, the shadow bars were aligned by hand so that the
detector buried deep within the arm had no line-of-sight to the gas cell or the
shielding of the other arm, but its line-of-sight to the entire sample volume was
maintained. Any configuration in which the arms were in opposition (i.e., the
angle between the arms was 180+-20 degrees) would allow neutrons scattered
from one arm direct access to the detector of the other arm, so these
configurations were avoided.

Signal timing and pulse shape data were collected from four [liquid scintillator]
detectors: one in each of the angular arms, one in a ceiling monitor
(CMON), and one at zero degrees with respect to the beam (ZDEG). In addition,
an RF pulse from the accelerator was collected to serve as a time-of-flight
(TOF) stop signal any time an event was recorded on one of the four neutron
detectors. Detectors were calibrated with standard 137Cs and 22Na sources. For
the 4M (6M) detector, a time resolution of X (Y) ns was established.

Data Analysis

Neutron energy was determined by TOF, and neutron-gamma differentiation
determined by combining pulse shape discrimination (PSD) using [MODULE NAME] with
a gate on pulse height (PH). Neutron events were histogrammed by energy and the
number of counts in each bin was corrected for energy-dependent detector
efficiency [figure reference].

Initial runs were taken using (in series) a graphite, a polyethylene, and a blank
sample. A comparison of the spectra for these samples shows a peak for elastic
scattering on protons easily identifiable in the polyethylene spectrum but
absent in the graphite and blank spectra. Given the well-established n(p,p)n
cross section [cite reference] and the physical characteristics of the samples,
the ratio of incident neutron flux to the number of CMON counts can be calculated
(see [insert equation], [figure reference]). This flux-to-monitor ratio was used to normalize the
subsequent Sn sample measurements so absolute cross sections could be reported.

During data production, runs were taken in batches of three: one using 112Sn,
one using 124Sn, and one with a blank. For each angle of a given angular arm, the
efficiency-corrected histograms were normalized by the run's CMON counts,
and the relevant blank-run histogram subtracted from the isotopic-run
histograms. The major background contribution, visible in blank-run histograms
([INSERT FIGURE]), is from elastic scattering on atmospheric nitrogen
in the immediate vicinity of the sample. To calculate the cross section, the
Sn elastic peak must be integrated and the N elastic and Sn first-inelastic
peaks must be excluded. At forward angles and high neutron energies, the
difference in energy between Sn-elastic, Sn-inelastic, and N-elastic neutron
decreases and the separation between the peaks is reduced. Measurements in this
kinematic regime are the most challenging as the increased overlap between
these peaks increases the uncertainty in the Sn-elastic integral.

Because the samples and angular detectors are not point-like, the exact
path of elastically-scattered neutrons is subject to a small degree of angular
uncertainty. The effect of this uncertainty is a "washing out" of measured cross
section maxima and minima with respect to the true cross section, especially in
regions where the cross section varies rapidly compared to the degree of
uncertainty. To assess the magnitude of this effect, a finite-size
simulation was prepared in which our measured cross section was assumed
to be the true cross section. In the simulation, a uniform beam of neutrons
impinged on the sample volume and was scattered into angular detectors where
hits were recorded. The resulting cross section [insert figure reference] is
thus a weighted convolution of the input cross section with the size uncertainty
of the samples and detectors. A comparison between the input and output cross
sections shows the finite-size effect is quite small in our case, much smaller
than statistical and other systematic errors. Still, to offset this effect, an
angle-dependent finite-size correction has been calculated and applied in all
results presented below.

Absolute cross sections 


